
The data rate for a storage device is dependent on many performance metrics
and read/write speeds can be expressed using two terms: Sustained data rate and
burst data rate.

Sustained rate is the average, or usual rate at which data can be transferred
to and from a storage device. It's the most accurate representation of a storage
devices read/write potential.

Burst data rate is only attributable to storage operations that have been
optimized to achieve the maximum possible throughput for a storage device.
This is often unachievable except in scenarios that allow for data to be
preorganized, or given dedicated access to the data bus.

Examples of the two types are:

Sustained rate: Whenever reading a file from or writing a file to a disk
the operation will most commonly run at the sustained data rate for the device.
Sustained rate is used for buffering video and sound files from storage, saving
and retrieving files, opening programs, and most other common tasks.
There are many possible drawbacks to storage read/write times including the
length of time it takes to read data from a disk to the head, head to RAM,
the bandwidth of the bus, access time to begin retrieving data, and the quality
of the storage device itself. This means that it is very unlikely for a
read/write function to ever operate at burst and is usually going to occur
at the sustained rate for the storage device.

Burst rate: When a storage device through optimization, being given dedicated
use of the data bus, or access to cache memory, is able to achieve its maximum
possible data throughput. The most common example of burst rate being triggered
is when storing from or loading data to RAM due to RAM "pre-loading" information
required for storage, causing the storage device to not have to manage the
requirements for the IOP and allowing the burst data rate for a brief time.
Burst data rate is also possible in other circumstances, for example if the
storage device is given dedicated access to the data bus without interruption
from other devices or operations, but this almost never occurs as other
aspects of the system require access to the data bus and cannot support itself
if only reading to or writing from a storage device.
Peripheral graphics cards can use burst data rates, as they preload huge chunks
of data and are given their own dedicated bus to the CPU and other devices.
